---
title: Phase 1
permalink: ffxiv/top/p1
layout: article
key: ffxiv-top-phase-1
sidebar:
  nav: ffxiv
---
[first in line]: ../../assets/ffxiv/debuffs/firstinline.png "First In Line"
[second in line]: ../../assets/ffxiv/debuffs/secondinline.png "Second In Line"
[third in line]: ../../assets/ffxiv/debuffs/thirdinline.png "Third In Line"
[fourth in line]: ../../assets/ffxiv/debuffs/fourthinline.png "Fourth In Line"
[looper]: ../../assets/ffxiv/debuffs/looper.png "Looper"
[twice come ruin]: ../../assets/ffxiv/debuffs/twicecomeruin.png "Twice Come Ruin"
[hp penalty]: ../../assets/ffxiv/debuffs/hppenalty.png "HP Penalty"
[condensed wave cannon kyrios]: ../../assets/ffxiv/debuffs/condensedwavecannonkyrios.png "Condensed Wave Cannon Kyrios"
[guided missile kyrios incoming]: ../../assets/ffxiv/debuffs/guidedmissilekyriosincoming.png "Guided Missile Kyrios Incoming"
[magic vuln]: ../../assets/ffxiv/debuffs/magicvuln.png "Magic Vuln"
[program loop gif]: ../../assets/ffxiv/strat-gifs/top/p1-program-loop.gif "Program Loop"
[arena image]: ../../assets/ffxiv/arena/TOP/phase1.png "P1 Arena"
[pantokrator gif]: ../../assets/ffxiv/strat-gifs/top/p1-pantokrator.gif "Pantokrator"
[wave cannon gif]: ../../assets/ffxiv/strat-gifs/top/p1-wave-cannon.gif "Wave Cannon"
### Phase 1

This phase consists of three primary mechanics, [**Program Loop**](#program-loop), [**Pantokrator**](#pantokrator), and [**Wave Cannon**](#wave-cannon)

- [Arena Image]

## Debuff Library

- First in Line ![first in line]
- Second in Line ![second in line]
- Third in Line ![third in line]
- Fourth in Line ![fourth in line]
- Looper ![looper]
- Twice Come Ruin ![twice come ruin]
- HP Penalty ![hp penalty]
- Condensed Wave Cannon Kyrios ![condensed wave cannon kyrios]
- Guided Missile Kyrios Incoming ![guided missile kyrios incoming]
- Magic Vulnerability Up ![magic vuln]

## Program Loop

Omega assigns **First in Line** ![first in line], **Second in Line** ![second in line], **Third in Line** ![third in line], and **Fourth in Line** ![fourth in line] to two players per debuff. Additionally, all players get a **Looper** ![looper] debuff with a duration of 15s, 24s, 33s, and 42s respectively. 

Next, two towers spawn around the arena along with two tethers originating from Omega. Each tower deals a moderate amount of damage and apply a stack of **Twice Come Ruin** ![twice come ruin] that lasts 11s, and can only be soaked by a player with the **Looper** ![looper] debuff. On the other hand, each tether creates an AoE that applies a 99% **HP Penalty** ![hp penalty] debuff along with a stack of **Twice Come Ruin** ![twice come ruin] that also lasts 11s.  

Establish a 1-8 priority system in which if a player is higher on the list than their partner with the same set of debuffs, they go to the first tower from A clockwise. Alternatively, if the player is lower on the list than their partner, they go counter-clockwise from D. 

You start off at the end of the castbar with all players south, and have the two players with **Third in Line** ![third in line] be closest to the boss in order to grab the two tethers. Next, have the two players with **First In Line** ![first in line] go to their tower according to the established priority systemm around the outside of Omega's hitbox, while the two players with the tether stay inside Omega's hitbox until they can move to the edge of the arena while keeping in mind the following:
- Be distanced from the two towers that have spawned
- Be sufficiently distanced from eachother

At the same time, the players with **Second in Line** ![second in line] and **Fourth in Line** ![fourth in line] should be near the towers in order to avoid getting clipped by the AoEs from the players with the tether. 

After the first set of towers and tethers go off, the players with **Second in Line** ![second in line] move to the two new towers that have spawned, while the two players with **Fourth in Line** ![fourth in line] grab the tethers from the two players with **Third In Line** ![third in line]. 

There is some nuance to the movement, so the players with the tethers should move to be on Omega's hitbox, while the players aiming to grab the tether should be inside Omega's hitbox. 

Next, you repeat the previous step with the players with **Third in Line** ![third in line] moving to the next two towers while the two players with **First in Line** ![first in line] grab the two tethers from the players with **Fourth in Line** ![fourth in line]

Finally, to resolve the mechanic you have the two players with **Fourth in Line** ![fourth in line] move to the two final towers while the two players with **Second in Line** ![second in line] grab the two tethers from the players with **First in Line** ![first in line].

Example:  
 [![program loop gif]](https://ff14.toolboxgaming.space/?id=974187611074761&preview=1)

## Pantokrator
Omega again assigns **First in Line** ![first in line], **Second in Line** ![second in line], **Third in Line** ![third in line], and **Fourth in Line** ![fourth in line] to two players per debuff. These coordinate to **Guided Missile Kyrios Incoming** ![guided missile kyrios incoming] and **Condensed Wave Cannon Kyrios** ![condensed wave cannon kyrios] debuffs with the following lengths:

| In Line | Guided Missile Kyrios ![guided missile kyrios incoming] | Condensed Wave Cannon Kyrios ![condensed wave cannon kyrios] |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| First ![first in line] | 12s | 24s |
| Second ![second in line] | 18s | 30s |
| Third ![third in line] | 24s | 12s | 
| Fourth ![fourth in line] | 30s | 18s |

**Guided Missile Kyrios Incoming** ![guided missile kyrios incoming] spawns a small fire AoE underneath the player that does high damage and knocks back any of the non-targeted players hit by the AoE. It additionally applies a **Magic Vulnerability Up** ![magic vuln].

**Condensed Wave Cannon Kyrios** ![condensed wave cannon kyrios] is a beam from Omega that is deals damage split amongst all players hit, and currently requires 3 players to soak in order for all players to live. Additionally, it applies a **Magic Vulnerability Up** ![magic vuln].

Omega spawns two 60 degree cleaves opposite from eachother on a cardinal or an intercardinal. Our goal is to get one of each **First in Line** ![first in line], **Second in Line** ![second in line], **Third in Line** ![third in line], and **Fourth in Line** ![fourth in line] on each safe side created by the cleaves. We utilized the same 1-8 priorty as before, where if the player is higher in the priorty list compared to their partner with the same debuffs they move North, and players who are lower in this priority list compared to their partner move South. Then, both parties rotate clockwise in order to be in the center of the safe area created by the two cleaves. 

The 60 degree cleaves from Omega rotate either clockwise or counter-clockwise, so each group positions around the edge of the boss's hitbox and effectively moves with the cleave chasing them. 

For player movement, we created a paradigm that can be used regardless of which **In Line** debuff the player recieved. Based off of the **Guided Missile Kyrios Incoming** ![guided missile kyrios incoming] debuff timer:
- At 6 seconds left, after the bait that appears underneath the player: Move into Omega's hitbox along the chasing cleave.
- At 3 seconds left: Cross over the 60 degree cleave that is underneath you.
- After 0 seconds left: Join up with the light party that was previously on the opposite safe side.

We consider this the "6 3 0" rule.
 
Additionally, while this is happening, **Condensed Wave Cannons** ![condensed wave cannon kyrios] are hitting the remaining players that do not have a **Guided Missile Kyrios Incoming** debuff expiring at the time, so this phase requires intensive healing.

Example:  
[![pantokrator gif]](https://ff14.toolboxgaming.space/?id=050283505205761&preview=1#1)

## Wave Cannon

This phase is the simplest - the boss targets the two farthest players with 5x **Diffuse Wave Cannon Kyrios**, 120 degree cleave tankbusters.   

Additionally, the boss selects the three closest players to target with **Wave Cannon Kyrios** - a beam from the boss that deals a small amount of magic damage and applies a **Magic Vulnerability Up**. The boss does this twice.

In order to have boss facing relatively consistent, we have tanks South and the party split up North - with our marker layout, we have tanks max melee towards 2 and 3, while players stand in line with the edges of the 4, A, and 1 markers on the boss's hitbox. We have healers and 1 dps take the first wave cannons while the remaining 3 dps take the second. 

Example:   
[![wave cannon gif]](https://ff14.toolboxgaming.space/?id=860287745305761&preview=1)


---
Atomic Ray is Omega's enrage for phase 1, and now onto phase 2!