---
title: Phase 2
permalink: ffxiv/top/p2
layout: article
key: ffxiv-top-phase-2
sidebar:
  nav: ffxiv
---

[arena image]: ../../assets/ffxiv/arena/TOP/phase2.png "P2 Arena"
[mid glitch]: ../../assets/ffxiv/debuffs/midglitch.png "Mid Glitch"
[remote glitch]: ../../assets/ffxiv/debuffs/remoteglitch.png "Remote Glitch"
[packet filter f]: ../../assets/ffxiv/debuffs/packetfilterf.png "Packet Filter F"
[packet filter m]: ../../assets/ffxiv/debuffs/packetfilterm.png "Packet Filter M"
[magic vuln]: ../../assets/ffxiv/debuffs/magicvuln.png "Magic Vuln"
[vulnerability up]: ../../assets/ffxiv/debuffs/vulnerabilityup.png "Vulnerability Up"
[square marker]: ../../assets/ffxiv/markers/square.png "Square Marker"
[square marker small]: ../../assets/ffxiv/markers/squaresmall.png "Square Marker"
[circle marker]: ../../assets/ffxiv/markers/circle.png "Circle Marker"
[circle marker small]: ../../assets/ffxiv/markers/circlesmall.png "Circle Marker"
[triangle marker]: ../../assets/ffxiv/markers/triangle.png "Triangle Marker"
[triangle marker small]: ../../assets/ffxiv/markers/trianglesmall.png "Triangle Marker"
[cross marker]: ../../assets/ffxiv/markers/cross.png "Cross Marker"
[cross marker small]: ../../assets/ffxiv/markers/crosssmall.png "Cross Marker"
[phys vuln]: ../../assets/ffxiv/debuffs/physvuln.png "Physical Vuln"
[twice come ruin]: ../../assets/ffxiv/debuffs/twicecomeruin.png "Twice Come Ruin"
[prey]: ../../assets/ffxiv/debuffs/prey.png "Prey"
### Phase 2 

We have so far seen the entirety of **Party Formation** and we have seen the initial portion of Limitless Synergy. (Toolboxes and Arena Images will be added later.)

- [Arena Image]

## Debuff Library

- Packet Filter M ![packet filter m]
- Packet Filter F ![packet filter f]
- Mid Glitch ![mid glitch]
- Remote Glitch ![remote glitch]
- Magic Vulnerability Up ![magic vuln]
- Vulnerability Up ![vulnerability up]
- Physical Vulnerability Up ![phys vuln]
- Twice Come Ruin ![twice come ruin]
- Prey ![prey] 

## Marker Library

- Square ![square marker small]
- Circle ![circle marker small]
- Triangle ![triangle marker small]
- Cross ![cross marker small]

## Start

Omega-M and Omega-F start by casting **Firewall**, assigning the 4 closest players **Packet Filter F** ![packet filter f] and **Packet Filter M** ![packet filter m] respectively. Once players receive these debuffs, players with **Packet Filter M** ![packet filter m] can only damage Omega-F and players with **Packet Filter F** ![packet filter f] can only damage Omega-M.

After this, the bosses both then target the highest in aggro with **Solar Ray**, a circular tankbuster.

Omega-F and Omega-M then cast **Party Synergy**.

## Party Synergy

Once the bosses disappear, players get tethered to eachother with various playstation markers:

- Cross [cross marker]
- Square [square marker]
- Triangle [triangle marker] 
- Circle [circle marker]

These tethers are either **Mid Glitch** ![mid glitch] or **Remote Glitch** ![remote glitch] tethers. **Mid Glitch** ![mid glitch] requires the tethered players to be not too close and not too far apart, while **Remote Glitch** ![remote glitch] requires the tethered players to be far from eachother. Examples of the rough distance will be shown later. (One thing to note, players only need to be at the suitable distance when taking damage, you can ignore the **Vulnerability Up** ![vulnerability up] outside of that.)  

Then, two Omega-M and Omega-F clones spawn. You want to ignore the Omega-M clone in the center of the arena and identify the weapon that the remaining Omega-M clone holds. If Omega-M is holding a shield, his AoE will be a dynamo (donut), and if Omega-M is only holding a sword, his AoE will be a chariot (get out). Next, identify the Omega-F clone opposite of the previously identified Omega-M clone. If she has scythes from her shoes, Omega-F will do a Hot Wing (two 180 degree cleaves to her sides), otherwise she will do a plus shaped AoE towards her cardinals (AoE going through her North/South and East/West). All of the possible formations will be shown as follows, and our assumption is that they can be rotated to be at any cardinals/intercardinals. (images to be added soon)

- Sword / No Scythe 
- Sword / Scythe
- Shield / No Scythe
- Shield / Scythe

While moving to the safe spot, identify where the eye is. Using the eye as relative North, move to either side of the eye depending on a previously assigned priority system.

For **Mid Glitch** ![mid glitch], players need to be positioned as follows: [mid glitch spread positioning]

On the other hand, for **Remote Glitch** ![remote glitch], players need to be positioned as follows: [remote glitch spread positioning]

Once players are spread, Omega-F casts Optimized Fire III and places AoEs on every player that apply a **Magic Vulnerability Up** ![magic vuln]. 

Then, additional Omega-M clones spawn such that 4 take up either all cardinal or intercardinal spots, along with an additional one covering one of the 4 remaining clock spots. At the same time, Omega-F spawns in the center and begins to cast a knock back, along with stack markers appearing on two players. (We aren't 100% on the spawning rules for the stacks, so I will be operating under the assumption that it is fully random.)

Then, using the side with 3 Omega-M clones as relative North, have the group that was previously to the relative West of the Eye get knocked back to the West safe spot. If the tether is **Remote Glitch** ![remote glitch], have the East group get knocked towards the East safe spot. Otherwise, if the tether is **Mid Glitch** ![mid glitch], have the East group get knocked to the South safe spot. 

There is a slight adjustment that may need to be made depending on where the two stack markers show up. If the two stacks are on the same side, have one tether group swap according to a previously assigned priority. What our group does is the following: 
1) If the two stacks are on the same side, identify if you are either the farthest stack to the eye or tethered to the player with the farthest stack from the eye. 
2) If you fit the above condition, swap with your tethered partner.

Once you get knocked back, the two stacks, **Discharger**, resolve and apply a **Magic Vulnerability Up** ![magic vuln]. After this, the two bosses spawn for a short uptime phase into **Limitless Formation**. 

Here is an example resolution gif (also a toolbox link):  
{To be added soon}

## Limitless Formation

An Omega-M and Omega-F clone appear on either NE/SW or NW/SE and spawn two tethers. These tethers produce large 90 degree tank cleaves, **Optimized Bladedance**. These tank cleaves also apply a **Physical Vuln**![phys vuln] We have one tank grab the tether from the Northern clone and point directly South of the clone, and we have the other tank grab the Southern tether and point it towards South. Additionally, we have both tanks invuln here at the moment. Here is an example: 

[Image to be added here]

At the same time, there is an Omega-M clone casting a Bard LB3 targeted at a random player. With the way the tanks are taking the **Optimized Bladedance**s, the party dodges either North, North East, or North West - away from the clone spawning the tether, along with away from the Bard LB3. 

After the dodge, the **Optimized Bladedance** cleaves go off. At the same time, an **Omega-M** clone with a Shield spawns around the edge of the arena, along with an **Omega-F** clone with a Black Mage rod.  

The **Omega-M** clone with a shield will cast **Beyond Defense**, targeting {unknown first targeting but it's like hitting the person in front of the **Omega-M** clone often enough} and applying a stack of **Twice Come Ruin** ![twice come ruin] to the targeted player. Additionally, it'll knock back any nearby players.

The same clone will then cast **Pile-Pitch**, a 4 player stack on {what we believe} is the closest player directly front of the clone. 

While this is happening, 3 random players are targeted with **Prey** ![prey]. When these resolve, **Omega-F** will cast Flares on those 3 players that deal distance based damage. 

Here is an example gif (also a toolbox link):
{Will add this at a later date}

The **Eye** then casts **Cosmo Memory**, which is a very hard hitting magical raidwide. 

Then, deal with the rest of the bosses' HP bars, and you're on to P3!
